Add basic HttpRequestor Gem documentation (#1057)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/network/http-requestor.md

---
linkTitle: HTTP Requestor
title: HTTPRequestor Gem
description: The HTTPRequestor Gem provides functionality to make asynchronous HTTP/HTTPS requests and return data through a user-provided call back function.
toc: true
---

The HTTPRequestor Gem provides functionality to make asynchronous HTTP/HTTPS requests and return data through a user-provided call back function.

{{< note >}}
This feature is currently supported only on Windows, it could be expanded to other platforms.
{{< /note >}}

## Getting Started

To use the HttpRequestor Gem, it must be enabled in the project. For more information refer to [Adding and Removing Gems in a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/add-remove-gems/).

The `HttpRequestor` Gem uses the AWS C++ SDK. To pick up these dependencies, add the following to the project's CMake file:

```
BUILD_DEPENDENCIES
        PRIVATE
            ...
            Gem::HttpRequestor
            3rdParty::AWSNativeSDK::Core
```

## C\+\+ API

{{< note >}}
This content is in the process of being moved to https://o3de.org/docs/api/gems/httprequestor/class_http_requestor_1_1_http_requestor_requests.html

> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍

```

Each add text request method requires the URI, a method and a callback.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| URI | `AZStd::String` | The fully qualified web address, in the following format: `scheme:[//[user:password@]host[:port]][/]path[?query][#fragment]` | 
| method | `Aws::Http::HttpMethod` | The method type. The following values are supported: `HTTP_GET`, `HTTP_POST`, `HTTP_DELETE`, `HTTP_PUT`, `HTTP_HEAD`, and `HTTP_PATCH`. | 
| callback | [see below](#text-request-callback) | This function is called when the HTTP request is completed. The response body and code are present in the callback. | 
| headers | `HttpRequestor::Headers` | The list of header fields for the HTTP request. | 
| body | `AZStd::String` | Optional body to send with the request. | 

#### Returns
`void`

### Text Request Callback

This callback is returned for the `AddTextRequest`, `AddTextRequestWithHeaders` and `AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody` methods.

```
void Callback(const AZStd::string& response, Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode responseCode);
```

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 

> | response | AZStd::string& | The text returned from the server. The life span of this object is valid only during the scope of the callback. | 

Reviewer 2: Minor: For the type of response, should it be AZStd::string& or AZStd::string?

---
linkTitle: HTTP Requestor
title: HTTPRequestor Gem
description: The HTTPRequestor Gem provides functionality to make asynchronous HTTP/HTTPS requests and return data through a user-provided call back function.
toc: true
---

The HTTPRequestor Gem provides functionality to make asynchronous HTTP/HTTPS requests and return data through a user-provided call back function.

> **Note**  
> This feature is supported only on Windows but could be expanded to other platforms.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ note}} 
This feature is currently supported only on Windows.
{{ /note }}
```

## Getting Started

> To use the HttpRequestor gem, you must enable it in your project. For more information refer to [Adding and Removing Gems in a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/add-remove-gems/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the HttpRequestor Gem, you must enable it in your project. For more information refer to [Adding and Removing Gems in a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/add-remove-gems/).
```

> As HttpRequestor uses pieces of the AWS C++ SDK, you will need to include these pieces in your CMake file:
> 
> ```
> BUILD_DEPENDENCIES
>         PRIVATE
>             ...
>             Gem::HttpRequestor
>             3rdParty::AWSNativeSDK::Core
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The `HttpRequestor` Gem uses the AWS C++ SDK. To pick up these dependencies, add the following to your project  CMake file:

```
BUILD_DEPENDENCIES
        PRIVATE
            ...
            Gem::HttpRequestor
            3rdParty::AWSNativeSDK::Core
```
````

> ## C\+\+ API

Reviewer: This content will be accepted for now, but should be placed in the header files of the `HttpRequestor` Gem so that we can move from hand-authored API reference on the docs to API reference generated from the headers themselves:

https://o3de.org/docs/api/gems/httprequestor/class_http_requestor_1_1_http_requestor_requests.html

> The HttpRequestor gem has separate sets of APIs for adding requests and adding text requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HttpRequestor Gem has separate sets of APIs for adding requests and adding text requests.
```

### AddRequest, AddRequestWithHeaders, AddRequestWithHeadersAndBody

> You can use the `AddRequest`, `AddRequestWithHeaders`, and `AddRequestWithHeadersAndBody` APIs to send generic HTTP requests to any website and receive the returned data in JSON format. The methods return the data received in the `callback` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `AddRequest`, `AddRequestWithHeaders`, and `AddRequestWithHeadersAndBody` APIs to send generic HTTP requests to any website and receive the returned data in JSON format. The methods return the data received in the `callback` parameter.
```

#### Syntax

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddRequest, URI, method, callback)
```

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddRequestWithHeaders, URI, method, headers, callback)
```

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddRequestWithHeadersAndBody, URI, method, headers, body, callback)
```

Each add request method requires the URI, a method and a callback.

#### Parameters

> 
> 
> ****  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 

> | URI | AZStd::String | The fully qualified web address, in the following format: scheme:\[//\[user:password@\]host\[:port\]\]\[/\]path\[?query\]\[\#fragment\] | 
> | method | Aws::Http::HttpMethod | The method type. The following values are supported: HTTP\_GET, HTTP\_POST, HTTP\_DELETE, HTTP\_PUT, HTTP\_HEAD, and HTTP\_PATCH. | 
> | callback |  | This function is called when the HTTP request is completed. The response body and code are present in the callback. | 
> | headers | HttpRequestor::Headers | The list of header fields for the HTTP request. | 
> | body | AZStd::String | Optional body to send with the request. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| URI | `AZStd::String` | The fully qualified web address, in the following format: `scheme:[//[user:password@]host[:port]][/]path[?query][#fragment]` | 
| method | `Aws::Http::HttpMethod` | The method type. Supports GET, POST, DELETE, PUT, HEAD, and PATCH HTTP methods. | 
| callback |  | This function is called when the HTTP request is completed. The response body and code are present in the callback. | 
| headers | `HttpRequestor::Headers` | The list of header fields for the HTTP request. | 
| body | `AZStd::String` | Optional body to send with the request. | 
```

**NOTE:** The type for `callback` is missing. Function pointer types are extra important to annotate.

> Return: No return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Returns

`void`
```

### JSON Request Callback

This callback is returned for the `AddRequest`, `AddRequestWithHeaders`, and `AddRequestWithHeadersAndBody` methods.

```
void Callback(const Aws::Utils::Json::JsonValue& json, Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode responseCode);
```

#### Parameters

> 
> 
> ****  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 

> | json | Aws::Utils::Json::JsonValue | The JSON object. The life span of this object is valid only during the scope of the callback. | 
> | responseCode | Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode | The HTTP response code. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| json | `Aws::Utils::Json::JsonValue` | The JSON object. The life span of this object is valid only during the scope of the callback. | 
| responseCode | `Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode` | The [HTTP response code](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-6). | 
```

Reviewer: Feel free to reject adding the link to the IETF doc, but in my experience it's useful to remind programmers of _extensive_ external reference where useful.

Return: No return value.

### AddTextRequest, AddTextRequestWithHeaders, AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody

> You can use the `AddTextRequest`, `AddTextRequestWithHeaders`, and `AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody` APIs to send a generic HTTP request to any website and receive the returned data in a text string. The methods return the data received in the `callback` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `AddTextRequest`, `AddTextRequestWithHeaders`, and `AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody` APIs to send a generic HTTP request to any website and receive the returned data in a text string. The methods return the data received in the `callback` parameter.
```

#### Syntax

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddTextRequest, URI, method, callback)
```

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddTextRequestWithHeaders, URI, method, headers, callback)
```

```
HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequestBus::Broadcast(&HttpRequestor::HttpRequestorRequests::AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody, URI, method, headers, body, callback)
```

Each add text request method requires the URI, a method and a callback.

#### Parameters

****  

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 

> | URI | AZStd::String | The fully qualified web address, in the following format: scheme:\[//\[user:password@\]host\[:port\]\]\[/\]path\[?query\]\[\#fragment\] | 
> | method | Aws::Http::HttpMethod | The method type. The following values are supported: HTTP\_GET, HTTP\_POST, HTTP\_DELETE, HTTP\_PUT, HTTP\_HEAD, and HTTP\_PATCH. | 
> | callback |  | This function is called when the HTTP request is completed. The response body and code are present in the callback. | 
> | headers | HttpRequestor::Headers | The list of header fields for the HTTP request. | 
> | body | AZStd::String | Optional body to send with the request. | 
> 
> Return: No return value.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
| URI | `AZStd::String` | The fully qualified web address, in the following format: `scheme:[//[user:password@]host[:port]][/]path[?query][#fragment]` | 
| method | `Aws::Http::HttpMethod` | The method type. Supports GET, POST, DELETE, PUT, HEAD, and PATCH HTTP methods. | 
| callback |  | This function is called when the HTTP request is completed. The response body and code are present in the callback. | 
| headers | `HttpRequestor::Headers` | The list of header fields for the HTTP request. | 
| body | `AZStd::String` | Optional body to send with the request. | 

#### Returns

`void`
````

### Text Request Callback

This callback is returned for the `AddTextRequest`, `AddTextRequestWithHeaders`, `AddTextRequestWithHeadersAndBody` methods.

```
void Callback(const AZStd::string& response, Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode responseCode);
```

#### Parameters

> 
> 
> ****  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 

> | response | AZStd::string& | The text returned from the server. The life span of this object is valid only during the scope of the callback. | 
> | responseCode | Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode | The HTTP response code. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| response | `AZStd::string&` | The text returned from the server. The life span of this object is valid only during the scope of the callback. | 
| responseCode | `Aws::Http::HttpResponseCode` | The [HTTP response code](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-6). | 
```

> Return: No return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Returns

`void`
```
